[MUSIC]
List methods are very
similar to list operators.
The main difference is that list
methods are invoked in a different way.
They're invoked on a list, so
you have to use the name of the list
that you're invoking the operation on.
You use that name in the invocation,
you prefix it actually.
So let's just take a look.
So you've got a list, [1, 2, 3], and
you want to append something to the list,
meaning add a number 8
onto the end of the list.
So there's a list method called append.
And the way you invoke is you say,
list.append, and
in parentheses you pass 8.
So what that will do is it'll take this
list, lst, which we just defined, and
it will append 8 onto that list.
Notice that one of
the arguments is append,
this append operator is working on list.
But list is not an explicit argument
to the append function, right?
You prefix the whole invocation
with the list, lst., right?
So what happens underneath the hood
is it basically takes that list and
passes it to the append function.
But it's just a different way
of doing the same thing, for
all appearances sake it looks different,
but it does the same thing, okay.
So there are several methods like this
where you invoke them by starting off
by prefixing the invocation with the name
of the list that you wanna operate on.
And then a dot and then you give
the name of the function or the method.
So now if you print that list after
doing this append, it's [1, 2, 3, 8], so
it did its job.
So there's a set of list methods,
here's some list methods.
The most common ones anyway.
lst.append, it does just what we saw,
it appends an item onto a list.
lst.count, it returns the number of times
a particular item appears in a list.
lst.index for
a particular item, it returns the index
of the first occurrence of the item.
So if you have that list that we just saw,
[1, 2, 3, 8], and
I said lst.item for 8,
it would return 3, right?
Because that's the third element starting
at 0, 0, 1, 2, 3, it's the third element.
Pop.
Pop removes the last item out of a list,
and it returns the item, okay?
So pop, and that's different
than lst.remove, if you look at
lst.remove which is the next one,
it just removes the item from the list.
It will remove an arbitrary
item from the list.
but pop removes the first item,
but it also returns,
oh, excuse me, pop removes the last item,
and it returns the last item,
where lst.remove doesn't return anything,
so there's a difference there.
lst.reverse, it doesn't return anything,
it reverses the order of the list,
reverses the order of
the elements in the list.
And lst.sort, it doesn't return anything,
it just sorts the element of the list in
increasing order for
whatever the elements are.
So if it's alphabetical or alphanumeric,
it just sorts them in alphanumeric order.
Yeah and append, remove, reverse and
sort don't actually return any values,
they just modify the list,
they don't return anything.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]